---
title: Nihilized Being ($-1-1-1)
date: 2024-04-22 15:36:02
---

### Ontology (1)

The Ontology is Logik. As stated in [Pure Thinking](./$-1-1), the A(bsolute) speaks about itself, the (agent-)B(eing). But this Being is of no determination.

### Epistemology (1)

The Epistemology is ***Absolute Negation***:
- It is able to contract/dissolve anything (...) into Being (with no determination).

### Teleology (1)

The Teleology of (Nihilized) Being is *Becoming Nothing*:
- Pure Thinking is (retroactively) awared of its indeterminateness (=> Nothing).
- *Nothing* is free of determinateness.

One possible definition of Nothing is *self-awareness of Being*.

```text
(Being)    (opens up horizon)    (Nothing)
   1   <=========================>   1
             (self-awared)


| Being ...         |
| Being [Being ...] |  (Becoming)
| Nothing           |
```
The dialectic movement, Becoming, is the genesis of (pure?) difference.

The full $-1-1-1 is as following:

```text
(perfect)         (dictate)         (Being)     (opens up horizon)    (Nothing)     
    1       <==================>       1       <==================>       1
                   (proxy)                        (self-awared)     
```

### Other ways

***Natural language***

In the English sentence "There is nothing.", we insert a pause in between:

```text
[There is ...] = [Nothing]
```

***Proto Set Theory***

Determination of Being can be quasi-formalized as a "proto-set":

{% katex '{"displayMode": true}' %} 
Being = \{A, B, C, ..., Being, ...\}
{% endkatex %}

We can therefore find the *symptom* of this determinate Being as a proto-set: `Being [Being]`. This special element negates the determination of `Being` internally. Similar reasoning can be applied to Universal Ideologies like Freedom, Equality, and so on.

***Möbius strip***

***Accent Shift***

Witness Martin Heidegger.

***Communist Manifesto***

I shall say the very self-awareness of indeterminateness, the Absolute Negation that dissolves every present and positive determinations, is *Freedom* à la Karl Marx:

{% katex '{"displayMode": true}' %} 
\text{The proletarians have nothing to lose but their chains. They have a world to win.}
{% endkatex %}